[Exploring the Filter-Flash Consciousness Model- Explaining the Easy
Problem of Consciousness]{.underline}

## [Overview:]{.underline}

In this document, I introduce the filter-flash consciousness model in
contrast to the traditional model of consciousness. We explore its
advantages in explaining what I call the objective models -- this
**easy** problem of consciousness. The question and problem posed by
consciousness we consider are:

- What is Consciousness (awareness)?\
  Objectively, why do we all experience consciousness awareness?

- Subjectively, why do these experiences differ from individual to
  individual?

[How does the filter-flash model address this objective problem of
consciousness?]{.underline}

Firstly, Consciousness is very dynamic, it is a dynamic and evolving
phenomenon due to the nature of our information in our world.\
\
**Consciousness** is evolving due to our physiological needs (food,
water, shelter), and as a metric of cognition, one\'s ability to do
something. Animals that cannot set traps are conscious, but some lack
the biological components such (fingers, a voice-box, and many
quadrupeds 4-legged).

To address, Animals have some cognitive biases that enable them to
navigate both the easy problems and hard problems of consciousness
without trial and error.

For consciousness to be a static model, our nature must be static, that
is, if we lived inside our heads pitch black darkness with no
information to process.

The darkness would be an eigen-grey or more surreal, like what blind
people experience.

The [**Filter-Flash**]{.underline} model is a model that separates
consciousness into two distant filter-and-flash. Filter means sorting
literally, information organising. All the operations here are dictated
at runtime when the individual is **subconscious** or **conscious**.

The Filter is used to arrange a large set of data. An analogy of this is
a large puzzle piece of information of an [unknown]{.underline} detailed
image, sky just dumped on the floor of the living room with a 1 -- 1000
cm (.1 m- 1000 meters).\
\
The **Filter** in **Filter-Flash** models expresses that the solution to
the easy problem by with this requirement(parameters):

- There is no clue /cue given. E.g., there is no information about the
  puzzle image to show, just a blank memory.

- A protective barrier that prevents exhaustion from exhaustive
  information overload -- this is known as burnout.\
  The Protective Barrier prevents consciousness degreed when solving the
  problem, and regulates information.

## [In this Filtering Model:]{.underline}

We can have several components that address various needs:

- [Dynamic Consciousness System:]{.underline}

  - Information reflects the real-world classifying items. These items
    are classified by the following properties (Colour, Shape, Size,
    etc).\
    \
    This enables the individual to classify properties that build to
    overall information using the classified properties.

## [**Filtering** in the **Filter**-Flash:]{.underline}

1.  The individual who is sorting the floor of puzzle pieces needs to
    find the first corner piece. This will yield a clearer picture --
    this information is then added to the database.

2.  Now our protective barrier adjusts silently to temporarily handle
    the first corner piece we found. The protective barrier mechanics
    adjust its system that measures consciousness degradation over time.
    It objective to note ensure we are actively solving problems and not
    be overwhelmed by signals to our conscience -- quit it before you
    lose everything you have learnt.

## [Flashing using the **Filter**-Flash:]{.underline}

3.  Now that the protective barrier has regulated consciousness, we can
    then flash it into our consciousness in the organised structure.
    This structure is the information we have retained. This is done at
    each retention of new information classified by new properties.

4.  After the **Flashing,** we can now utilise the new insights or
    knowledge to decipher new information.
